Docs for IntelilJ plugin (#388)
metalbear-co/mirrord.dev: content/docs/using-mirrord/intellij-plugin/index.md

---
title: "IntelliJ Plugin"
description: "Using the mirrord plugin in JetBrains' IDEs"
date: 2025-01-07T00:00:00+00:00
lastmod: 2025-01-07T00:00:00+00:00
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "using-mirrord"
weight: 160
toc: true
tags: ["open source", "team", "enterprise"]
---

If you develop your application in one of the JetBrains' IDEs (e.g PyCharm, IntelliJ or GoLand), you can debug it with mirrord using our JetBrains Marketplace [plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/19772-mirrord). Simply:
1. Download the plugin
2. Enable mirrord using the toolbar button (next to "mirrord" popup menu)
{{<figure src="images/enabler.png" alt="Select Active Config action">}}
3. Run or debug your application as you usually do

When you start a debugging session with mirrord enabled, you'll be prompted with a target selection dialog.
This dialog will allow you to select the target in your Kubernetes cluster that you want to impersonate.

> __Note__: For some projects, the plugin might not be able to present the target selection dialog.
>

> > When this happens, you should see a warning notification and the execution should be cancelled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When this happens, you'll see a warning notification and the execution will be cancelled.
```

> You can still use mirrord, but you'll have to specify the target in mirrord config.
>
> This is known to happen with Java projects using IntelliJ build system.

> Enabling or disabling mirrord with the toolbar button affects all future run and debug sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The toolbar button enables/disables mirrord for all run and debug sessions.
```

mirrord's initial state on startup can be configured in the plugin settings (`Settings -> Tools -> mirrord -> Enable mirrord on startup`)

## Enabling/disabling mirrord for a specific run configuration

mirrord can be persistently enabled or disabled for a specific run configuration, regardless of the toolbar button state.
This is controlled via the `MIRRORD_ACTIVE` environment variable in your run configuration.

To have mirrord always enabled for the given run configuration, set `MIRRORD_ACTIVE=1` in the run configuration's environment variables.
To have mirrord always disabled, set `MIRRORD_ACTIVE=0`.

## Selecting Session Target

mirrord's target can be specified in two ways: with the target selection dialog or with the mirrord config.

If the mirrord config does not specify the target, you will be prompted with the dialog each time you start a new session.

The dialog will only show targets in the namespace specified in the mirrord config.
If the namespace is not specified, your Kubernetes user's default namespace will be used.

> ## Using mirrord Config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the mirrord Config
```

### Active Config

The toolbar dropdown menu allows for specifying a temporary mirrord config override.
This config will be used for all run/debug sessions.

To specify the override, use `Select Active Config` action.

{{<figure src="images/select-active-config.png" alt="Select Active Config action">}}

You will be prompted with a dialog where you can select a mirrord config from your project files.
For the file to be present in the dialog, its path must contain `mirrord` and end with either `.json`, `.yaml` or `.toml`.

You can remove the override using the same action.

### Config For Run Configuration

If no active config is specified, the plugin will try to read the config file path from the `MIRRORD_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable specified in the run configuration.

This path should be absolute.

### Config From Default Path

If config file path is not specified in the run configuration environment, the plugin will try to find a default config.

Default config is the lexicographically first file in `<PROJECT ROOT>/.mirrord` directory that ends with either `.json`, `.yaml` or `.toml`.

> ## Managing mirrord Binary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Managing the mirrord Binary
```

---

> title: "Intellij Plugin"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "IntelliJ Plugin"
```

> description: "Using mirrord plugin in JetBrains IDEs"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Using the mirrord plugin in JetBrains IDEs"
```

date: 2025-01-07T00:00:00+00:00
lastmod: 2025-01-07T00:00:00+00:00
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "using-mirrord"
weight: 160
toc: true
tags: ["open source", "team", "enterprise"]
---

> If you work on your application in one of JetBrains IDEs (e.g PyCharm, IntelliJ or Goland), you can debug it with mirrord using our JetBrains Marketplace [plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/19772-mirrord). Simply:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you work on your application in one of JetBrains' IDEs (e.g PyCharm, IntelliJ or Goland), you can debug it with mirrord using our JetBrains Marketplace [plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/19772-mirrord). Simply:
```

> If you work on your application in one of JetBrains IDEs (e.g PyCharm, IntelliJ or Goland), you can debug it with mirrord using our JetBrains Marketplace [plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/19772-mirrord). Simply:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you develop your application in one of the JetBrains IDEs (e.g PyCharm, IntelliJ or GoLand), you can debug it with mirrord using our JetBrains Marketplace [plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/19772-mirrord). Simply:
```

> 1. Download the plugin,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download the plugin
```

> 2. Enable mirrord using the toolbar button (next to "mirrord" popup menu),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enable mirrord using the toolbar button (next to "mirrord" popup menu)
```

{{<figure src="images/enabler.png" alt="Select Active Config action">}}

> 3. Run or debug your application the usual way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run or debug your application as you usually do.
```

> You should be prompted with a target selection dialog. This dialog will allow you to select the target in your cluster that you want to impersonate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you start a debugging session with mirrord enabled, you'll be prompted with a target selection dialog. This dialog will allow you to select the target in your Kubernetes cluster that you want to impersonate.
```

> > __Note__: For some projects, the plugin might not be able to present the target selection dialog.

Reviewer: Isn't this all explained in the warning?

Author: Yeah, but somehow we keep getting questions about this on Discord ;_;

>
> When this happens, you should see a warning notification and the execution should be cancelled.
> You can still use mirrord, but you'll have to specify the target in mirrord config.
>
> This is known to happen with Java projects using IntelliJ build system.

> Enabling or disabling mirrord with the toolbar button affects all future run and debug sessions.

Reviewer: Didn't understand this sentence

Author: I wanted to highlight that it's a global setting, not only for the currently selected run config

Reviewer: Got it, see suggested phrasing

> Initial state of the button can be configured in plugin settings (`Settings -> Tools -> mirrord -> Enable mirrord on startup`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default state of the button on startup can be configured in plugin settings (`Settings -> Tools -> mirrord -> Enable mirrord on startup`)
```

> Initial state of the button can be configured in plugin settings (`Settings -> Tools -> mirrord -> Enable mirrord on startup`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mirrord's initial state on startup can be configured in the plugin settings (`Settings -> Tools -> mirrord -> Enable mirrord on startup`)
```

> ## Enabling/disabling mirrord for specific run configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enabling/disabling mirrord for a specific run configuration
```

mirrord can be persistently enabled or disabled for a specific run configuration, regardless of the toolbar button state.

> This is controlled via `MIRRORD_ACTIVE` environment variable in your run configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is controlled via the `MIRRORD_ACTIVE` environment variable in your run configuration.
```

To have mirrord always enabled for the given run configuration, set `MIRRORD_ACTIVE=1` in the run configuration's environment variables.
To have mirrord always disabled, set `MIRRORD_ACTIVE=0`.

## Selecting Session Target

> Impersonation target can be specified in two ways: with the target selection dialog or with the mirrord config.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The target to impersonate can be specified in two ways: with the target selection dialog or with the mirrord config.
```

> Impersonation target can be specified in two ways: with the target selection dialog or with the mirrord config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mirrord's target can be specified in two ways: with the target selection dialog or with the mirrord config.
```

If the mirrord config does not specify the target, you will be prompted with the dialog each time you start a new session.

> The dialog will show only targets living in the namespace specified in the mirrord config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dialog will only show targets in the namespace specified in the mirrord config.
```

If the namespace is not specified, your Kubernetes user's default namespace will be used.

## Using mirrord Config

> The plugin allows for using the [mirrord config](/docs/reference/configuration), just like standard mirrord CLI commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin allows for using the [mirrord config](/docs/reference/configuration).
```

> Templating using the [Tera](https://keats.github.io/tera/docs/) template engine is supported as well.

Reviewer: I don't think it's necessary to point this out here

> For any run/debug session, mirrord config can be specified in multiple ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For any run/debug session, the mirrord config to be used can be specified in multiple ways:
```

### Active Config

> Plugin's toolbar dropdown menu allows for specifying a temporary mirrord config override.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The toolbar dropdown menu allows for specifying a temporary mirrord config override.
```

This config will be used for all run/debug sessions.

To specify the override, use `Select Active Config` action.

{{<figure src="images/select-active-config.png" alt="Select Active Config action">}}

You will be prompted with a dialog where you can select a mirrord config from your project files.
For the file to be present in the dialog, its path must contain `mirrord` and end with either `.json`, `.yaml` or `.toml`.

You can remove the override using the same action.

### Config For Run Configuration

> If no active config is specified, the plugin will try to read config file path from `MIRRORD_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable specified in the run configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If no active config is specified, the plugin will try to read the config file path from the `MIRRORD_CONFIG_FILE` environment variable specified in the run configuration.
```

This path should be absolute.

### Config From Default Path

If config file path is not specified in the run configuration environment, the plugin will try to find a default config.

Default config is the lexicographically first file in `<PROJECT ROOT>/.mirrord` directory that ends with either `.json`, `.yaml` or `.toml`.

## Managing mirrord Binary

The plugin relies on the standard mirrord CLI binary.

By default, the plugin checks latest release version and downloads the most up-to-date binary in the background.
You can disable this behavior in the plugin settings (`Settings -> Tools -> mirrord -> Auto update mirrord binary`).

You can also pin the binary version in the plugin settings (`Settings -> Tools -> mirrord -> mirrord binary version`).

## WSL

> Guide on how to use the plugin with remote development on WSL can be found [here](/docs/using-mirrord/wsl/#root-project-intellij).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The guide on how to use the plugin with remote development on WSL can be found [here](/docs/using-mirrord/wsl/#root-project-intellij).
```
